9:00 am in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and in
Hong Kong. You're watching the China
show. I'm Yvon Man with David and Glass.
>> Good morning. We are counting down to
the open of markets in greater China.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Stocks across the region tumbling and
tumbling quite bad. Uh after the
turbulence of course in Wall Street,
investors are pulling back from riskier
assets this Friday. Concerns lingering
over stretch AI valuations and the Fed's
ability to cut interest rates. Also
ahead, more conversations from the
Bloomberg New Economy Forum here in
Singapore. Former US Commerce Secretary
Gina Rayondo joins us to discuss
America's strategic [music] competition
with China.
>> And I'm Annabelle Drooers in Taipei
where Honai Tech day is just getting
underway this morning. We're going to be
speaking with Foxcon chairman about AI
business strategy. That's as the firm
partners with Open AI to design hardware
for data centers.
>> [music]
>> Please take your seats.
>> David, what a difference a day makes. We
were just talking about this 24 hours
ago about this whole [music] Nvidia
story that was maybe lifting all boats
and now you're seeing one of the most
dramatic reversals when it comes to US
stocks, I believe, since we saw back in
April. And we're feeling that here
across Asia today as we wrap up the last
day of NEF here.
>> Yeah, it's there was very little
indication that the price action we're
seeing today was showing up this time.
It was complete opposite mirror image.
In fact, when you look at it, in fact,
when we went to bed early evening on
Thursday, uh markets were still up. You
woke up in the morning and one of the
massive sharpest intraession
>> 5% drop on the day
>> swings right in about in about four
years or so. And the momentum is
carrying through uh quite strongly as
you can see across particularly the tech
heavy benchmarks right so Taiwan is
coming in line we're down 3% the Cosby
index if this is any
>> sliver of sol is out there was down over
4% at one point we're now just down
three and we are going likely going to
see some futures and some pressure
coming through uh in the greater Chinese
markets when things come back online on
top of all of this there's the FX
conversation with the Japanese
complication there around potential
intervention and we've got we've gotten
the the latest signets on that a few
hours ago that they might be looking at
this.
>> We have seen some job loaning already,
right, that they're talking about these
excessive moves when it comes to the
yen. This on the back of that core CPI
print that we got out of Japan, right?
3%. CPI has been above that 2% target
for 43 months now in Japan. So, that is
kind of ramping up the expectations that
the BOJ is going to have to hike whether
it's December or January. You add that
of course to Takayichi said to unveil
her first economic package later on
today. There's certainly a lot going on.
The bond vigilantes are emerging right
now.
>> Let's have a look at US futures as well
to get any indication of whether or not
we are seeing some of the pressure abate
following the terrible cash market
session coming up on your screens very
very shortly. I should also mention
going into the open today about 27
minutes away and we're doing well but
we'll see of course whether that we are
or we have managed to ring fence things
on the futures front going into the
session. Uh we're also looking at some
European futures. We'll get to that in a
moment but just to mention as well we're
just about 3% away from entering a bare
market on the Hench index.
>> Yeah, watch those levels quite closely.
Right there there are so many theories
out there what's really sparking this
sort of sharp turn in risk sentiment.
Right. Is it really kind of the AI
bubble concerns resurfacing that strong
September jobs report that came out of
the US as well? Does that basically we
got to write out uh the possibility or
rule out the possibility of a December
cut uh next month from the Fed and then
Bitcoin as well. You take a look where
the price action is right now when it
comes to Bitcoin. We are sub 87,000
>> right now. Is that going to be sort of
the first sign of you know risk aversion
and why people are are really now
frantically pressing the sell button? I
it has behaved quite clearly as a risk
asset.
>> We're above 87,000 at least now
>> but we're close to 85 and we were just
at 125 seven weeks back just to give you
an indication of that pullback and a
sharp pull and we we are going of course
into December and you know set aside the
fund manager survey out of BA that did
still strike a rather bullish tone
because the price action is suggesting
that people might be uh doing something
else despite of course having the the
perception that things might be okay.
>> Yeah. Let's get more now uh from our
Bloomberg executive editor for Asia
Markets, Paul Dobson. He's watching all
this over there. Uh we're close by in in
our Singapore office. And and Paul, I
mean, everyone's been talking about what
led to this. What triggered this
dramatic reversal that we're seeing
across risk assets now.
>> Yeah, good morning, Ivon. Well, uh,
nobody really knows exactly what the
trigger was, but I think that we have
some, uh, sense of, uh, why it happened
and and that that is still those
concerns, not so much about how much
money Nvidia is going to raise from
selling all of its chips, but how
exactly it's it it's arranging the sales
and whether the buyers are going to
actually be able to then uh, viably pay
for it all and turn a profit on their
investments as well and how long that's
going to take for that payback as well.
lots of question marks hanging over
things at the moment and we're seeing
people expressing risk in various areas
uh for example uh on some of the um the
the the data center builders uh we're
seeing people trading in CDS uh i.e. you
know sort of hedging a little bit for
the risk that their bond uh prices are
going to sell off uh somewhat from where
we are at the moment the cost of funding
is going to get pushed up and that's
going to make it harder uh for the whole
cycle to actually complete. I think that
you know actually you're in a great spot
over there at uh BNE uh forum this week
uh listening to all of the guests who've
been talking about just the massive
costs and going through the numbers on
stage in some of the sessions that I was
listening to and talking about you know
how it's basically the you would need
all of the revenue again from most of
the magnificent 7 in order to justify um
the the the expenditure that's coming in
these chips and so that's why I think
market has this concern about whether
we've gotten a little bit too carried
away with the valuations. Um, on the
other hand, you have this very positive
narrative. We are, you know, heading
into a new age where AI is definitely
going to be playing an important role in
all sorts of different parts of of of
daily activity going forwards. And so,
that's the the trade-off that investors
are grappling with right now.
>> Yeah, Paul, that's a very good point.
the fact that when you get an earnings
report and guidance 12 months and people
are talking about we will need to see a
specific trillion figure 5 years down
the road to just make me sleep well at
night looking at the current multiple is
I guess indicative of maybe how far
things have become so going forward I
mean we're looking at US futures at this
point in time seems to be stable uh the
night is young as we say three ten of 1%
to the upside there uh is that any
indication that things might start to
stabilize going into the European
morning and going into the US session on
Friday.
>> Well, I don't know. I'm getting a sense
of danger of view here, David, because
we seem to have had that conversation a
few times in the Asia morning where
after there's been that big sell off in
the US market, the futures have been up
a little bit again in our session. I
think that a lot of people are paying
attention at the moment to a number
crunch that came from the Goldman Sachs
trading desk which is talking about the
idea that when you see that really big
intraday reversal from uh you know
whatever we had sort of one and a half%
up to to you know nearly 2% down like we
had yesterday uh in the S&P most often
you get a big rebound the day afterwards
and on average that's pretty expensive.
is it's it's it tends to come in periods
of extreme volatility and you know th
that this market the VIX is elevated but
not extreme uh yet but it tends to speak
to that idea that we're in very volatile
times and we could uh spring back again
or we could have another leg down and I
think that you know the the some of the
other things that might give you hope
though are not really there. The US data
is absent for one thing. The Fed we
pretty convinced now isn't going to be
cutting in December. So that's another
support that's gone. and the economy,
you know, we're still getting bad reads
on the US economy and particularly the
spending by uh poorer uh parts of
society. And so that is a drag uh that
the market is contending with on top of
all of the chip news and volatility
there.
>> Paul, I'm watching Japan. Nic is down
too. We're at 157 levels for dollar yen.
We did hear a little bit from the policy
makers there about these the moves that
we're seeing, the weakness that we're
seeing, that that hot CPI print not
helping uh the currency in some ways as
well. I'm just wondering, are we really
on intervention watch at this point in
Japan?
Uh, no, I don't think we're on
intervention watch yet, but I think that
we're, you know, we're starting to hear
uh tick through those levels of uh
rhetoric as the BOJ, oh, sorry, as the
government starts to get a little bit
more alarmed about the the weakness.
It's all about the pace of the move,
isn't it, for the yen really, rather
than outright levels. Yes, they 160 or
whatever is is sometimes a place where
they they might uh think about drawing a
line in the sand, but really what
they're concerned about is if the move
is extremely rapid and we're not really
expressing that at these levels. But I
do think you know not just the yen but
pay attention to the Japanese government
bonds as well because a little bit like
do you remember earlier in the year we
had this idea of a sell America trade
where the dollar was falling at the same
time as treasuries and everybody was
very concerned about that and now we're
having that in Japan where the yen is
weakening at the same time that they're
setting off in Japanese government bonds
and that's quite a worrying sign. It
tells you that the market doesn't feel
like it's willing to stomach the
takayichi stimulus that we're likely to
see in the budget today. That should be
more of a concern uh for the government
than uh paying around in the currency
market.
>> Paul, fantastic. Thank you. Paul Dobson
there with the context going into the
Friday session. It's looking bad out
there when you look at Asia as it as we
speak. I'm looking at futures right now
pointing to a lower open. Not as bad
though as what we're seeing across uh
some equity markets already up and
running like Taiwan, like Japan as Ivon
was talking about and also like South
Korea. Also just to mention to we could
[music] get somewhat of a let's call
potentially market moving uh midpoint
out of the PBOC. There is an opportunity
there to backs stop some of the risk
appetite or the lack of it at least
today uh with a stronger fix. The late
the last one came in at 70905. That's
just to [music] mention of course the
the difference there going into the open
today. Dollar China on your screen 7152.
Cutting down to the open of trade 20
minutes away in Shanghai in Shenzhen and
in Hong Kong. This is [music] the China
show and you're watching Bloomberg.
[music]
I think the Fed does need [music] to go
ahead and cut again. You know, when I
travel around the country talking to
businesses, which I have hit 36 out of
50 states [music] on my 50 state tour
before, you know, the Democratic
shutdown happened, those business owners
[music] are wanting to borrow more money
at a cheaper rate to invest in their
workforce. That is what [music] they're
asking. And so, I think another rate cut
is exactly what we need um to really
grow this workforce. [music]
>> There we go. So that was the US labor
secretary speaking to Bloomberg after
the release of what they just of course
outlined there the September jobs report
and juxtaposed and almost oxymoronic uh
with that is a call still for Fed cuts
despite of course what seemingly is a
strong labor market. Uh meanwhile though
speaking of that Austin Goulby of course
out of the Chicago Fed says that he is
[clears throat]
apprehensive about more easing. He spoke
to reporters in Indianapolis following
the release of the similar data set.
Let's have a look.
We've got a series of geopolitical and
policy
shocks that have come in that are
masking in my in my view this underlying
the economy is pretty strong and I feel
like eventually we are going to be back
to rates can come down a fair amount but
in the near term I'm a little uneasy
frontloading
too many rate cuts. All
right, let's get to Niraj Seth, founder
and CEO of three R investment
management. Najj was formerly a chief
investment officer of course at Black
Rockck's Asia-Pacific fundamental fixed
income team. Naj, it's great to have you
back on the program on a day that is so
volatile and we're seeing such dramatic
reversal in risk assets. I'm just
wondering how are you thinking about
year end and the volatility that we're
seeing right now? So I do think we are
what we are seeing is a midcycle
correction and to some extent markets
hitting an air pocket. I don't think
it's a turn in the cycle. I don't think
we are entered a bare market completely
but the correction is healthy. I do
think we will see potentially the wall
to stay high as we go into the year end
because there are a lot of factors
coming in play. You have the Fed cut,
you have the Fed chair announcement, you
have the question around the Fed
independence. You'll have BOJ coming
back in equation and you have weaker
China data. So the confluence of factors
I do think we'll see more wall as we go
into the year end
>> in terms of the market mechanics some
people have pointed to maybe some
underlying liquidity issues. So you
seeing any material signs or what should
we be watching if uh to just understand
financial conditions right now which
could be tightening.
>> So I think you've seen for the first
time in in fact since April a little bit
of tightening of financial conditions
and what you do need to watch are the
correlations and you've seen a little
bit of that breaking of correlations. If
you look at last week week and a half
you saw the treasury selling off you saw
gold down. You saw obviously dollar with
little bit of a strength. the risk of
currencies didn't really perform and you
have seen those correlations not exactly
what you would expect in a normal
functioning market. How I should I be
looking at credit stress next year then
given all the factors that you
highlighted there? Are we certain signs
of credit stress really picking up next
year?
>> So some signs but I wouldn't say it's
broad-based. I would highlight two
pockets. You would you would see that
first is in terms of all the AI spend.
You're seeing some of that credit
spreads actually showing meaningful move
even though from a very low base. And
the second area which will remain in
focus in my view is private credit where
we've seen a significant growth. We had
few cases of the defaults over the
course of last few months. I think
there's more to come there. But I can't
see a systemic risk emerging from credit
stress. But I do see the credit spread
in general widening going into next
year.
>> Can we can we still at least expect the
Fed to come in early in the event we get
a more meaning if if we get a more
meaningful sign that credit stress might
be starting to
>> I think the bar will be high for the Fed
to jump in. Now if you look back in last
20 years I can look back at 2008 crisis
and you had 2020 covid where you had the
fed coming in and providing support for
credit not just for the functioning of
treasury market but that bar in my mind
is high so small amount of stress and
widening and some defaults I don't think
the Fed jumps in.
>> You mentioned about the AI risk in
credit markets. I mean they're they're
raising a lot of money out there.
>> Yeah.
>> Do these numbers shock you in any way?
It's the numbers almost get to a point
of being serial because end of the day
the question always comes as an investor
is the return on investment and where is
the investment return going to come from
it's a bit unclear and the markets are
getting somewhat nervous trying to
understand where is that return or the
productivity boost going to show up now
now the challenge I can see is like any
other technology shift that we have seen
in history not investing is not an
option for the large players so hence
this race is going to continue and you
will get winners and losers in this the
whole race and the the credit spreads
will keep reflecting that as you go. Do
you think we'll get meaningful more
meaningfully more supply in credit next
year on the back of just the
>> I do think so. If you look at the
infrastructure boom around that data
centers power everything that's required
I do think you would need to be able to
fund it and now at this point you've
seen that crossover where the funding
requirements are much above the free
cash flow from a lot of the large AI
investors
>> already and they have a substantial
amount of free cash flow.
>> Yeah.
>> Where are you seeing is there a good
barometer of AI risk in the credit
markets right now? People are talking
about these credit default swaps around
Oracle for example is sort of something
are you finding those sort of pockets I
guess of stress
>> I think the pockets are not really that
clear or Oracle obviously is a little
more visible because it's more crossover
than the very highly rated larger cap
names but where I think the credit
spreads will show up in terms of the
reflection is as you see some defaults
or challenges picking up as you go into
next year I don't think we have seen
that much as yet the credit expansion on
the back of AI right is in the early
stages.
>> I want to ask you about the inflation
and the tariff induced inflation that I
think if you were at some of the
sessions I think Gina Raonda talked
about you know it's very difficult to
reverse tariffs that are already in
place. She sp she said she spent hours
in the oval office talking to Biden
convincing him can you take out some of
the tariffs and they tend to be sticky
and the reason I say that is now
>> we've yet to really see the pass through
from the large corporates in terms of
inflation. Is that something we should
expect next year?
>> I certainly think we should expect that.
There was lot of front loing. There was
a lot of inventory bills. There's
certainly a lot of absorption of that
cost increase by both the seller and the
buyer. The pass through has started in
my view and we'll see a continuation of
that pass through that will play through
the CPI data in next year. I think the
bigger question for the Fed will be the
tariff induced inflation. do we do they
try to look through it
>> versus the services inflation which is
more sticky
>> which is certainly a bigger headache for
the Fed at this point
>> um in terms of just the private credit
space that you talked about I mean
everyone seems to be piling into private
credit these days are there risks that
maybe investors don't know about really
something that is a little bit more
opaque than maybe public markets
>> I think the part which obviously is
challenging for a lot of investors it is
a market which is not very transparent
Right? There's no mark tomarket on a
regular basis. There's no active
trading. So you don't have a price
discovery. The challenges that you would
see is as the underlying businesses,
specifically the smaller businesses or
the buyouts which were actually financed
through the private credit markets. As
those businesses slow down because of
high rates, the tariff impact, the shift
in supply chains, end of the day, credit
is credit. It goes through cycle and the
biggest risk in credit is default. And I
think that becomes very binary and you
will not find out till it gets there.
>> Tell us about this new fund that you're
you're fundraising. Of course you've
helped speaking of private credit helped
build of course a franchise of private
credit in your previous house. What
strategies are you looking at? What
looks mispriced as you launch?
>> So at this point uh first of all the
strategy is very much focused around
multi strategy credit. So across the
credit spectrum in terms of liquidity,
country, currencies and looking at
allocating capital where you see
mispricings. Right now if I look at
credit in most parts of the public
markets, it looks fairly to rich in
terms of pricing which means you're not
going to lean too long in these markets.
Not these are the points in time where
having the tail risk hedges and some
downside pro protection becomes
critical. Private credit is a space from
a secular perspective I still think has
a long runway but from a cyclical
standpoint next one or two years can be
tough.
>> Uh you're seeking to raise about 700
million. How how is that going so far
for you?
>> It's going well. It's very well on the
way. I think it's the idea is to
obviously start small sometime in the
course of next few weeks and then it's
an open-ended structure which actually
gives you the runway to raise over the
next few years. So I'm in no rush. I
think the market is coming your way in
terms of opportunity and you actually
want to grow alongside
>> nj it's great to have you n there
founder and CIO of 3R investment
management joining us here at day three
of the Bloomberg new economy forum terms
of the pre-market and what we're looking
at here this is what HSI is looking at
we're watching of course if we're going
to see that uh 20% well off the peaks
right of tech [music]
watching those key levels there as well
there you go hang pre-market is down one
and a half% [music] this is Bloomberg
>> [music]
>> Let's head back inside of course a
plenary there ongoing panel that's going
on the spotlight on Europe in
conversation with Kuryakos Misatakis
that is the Greek prime minister of
course with our very own Bloomberg News
editor-inchief John Miku developed. Uh
so there's there's a way of um uh of um
again respecting what has already
happened while inviting uh US capital
and US interest to invest in Greece and
I think so far we've been successful in
doing that.
>> Slightly more problematic one. You just
had President Zilinski visiting you in
Athens this morning. We've seen these
details coming out of a US
backed peace plan that seems to give
Russia a lot of what it wants. I mean,
how should we look at that? Is that just
a surrender or is it just accepting the
inevitable?
>> Well, I I just looked at the reports, so
nothing has been officially communicated
to us, us meaning I think European
leaders. Uh I think a lot of the points
that I saw are quite problematic um in
terms of Ukraine giving up territory it
still controls and of course at the end
of the day we've made it very clear that
no deal can be done without Ukraine and
of course the Europeans need to be part
of any discussion regarding the future
security arrangements uh of of Europe
and I think we've also made it quite
clear that at the end of the day the
most important security guarantee for
Ukraine is a very strong Ukrainian uh
army uh and that you know Ukrainian
armed forces need to take responsibility
in terms of ensuring that Ukraine but of
course to to a certain extent also
Europe is
>> right we will be revisiting the ongoing
discussion taking place here at the
Bloomberg new economy forum uh we're
just going to do a very very brief look
at markets ahead of the opening bell and
we are set to join the sell off across
uh global markets with Hong Kong and
China coming online we are on bare
market watch and the hen tech index.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
[music]
Right. Good morning. Welcome back.
You're watching the China show. You
know, I had a really good 8 hours sleep
last night.
>> Good for you.
>> It here I am still on edge. It must be
these markets. Must be the air go.
>> Chill go that today. We might need that
today on your terminal.
>> Well, all the bulls
>> want to watch 5346.
>> Uh at about these levels, we're down
about two 2 and a2% in the early
goingings on the Hangen Tech index or
about half of 1% more than that.
Probably takes us to those levels.
Suffice to say, we are in bare market
watch here. uh as we look at these
markets coming online in about a couple
of of [music] seconds uh from now. What
are you watching?
>> Yeah, you mentioned about those
correlations between the US and China
and actually now in positive right
before [music] it used to be the
diversification play China that was it
seems like as this sell off this
relentless bout of selling continues. It
actually means that these correlations
are turning more positive now and China
is not immune to of course the volata
that we're seeing across these markets.
But let's get to Minimman Lo. She's
joining us with the market action in
Hong Kong.
Yeah, we are seeing this market sell off
especially in the tech stocks, right?
And we are seeing the CSI 300 now 1%
lower participating in this selloff but
to a lesser extent than some of the tech
heavy indexes in the region the likes of
the NIK and the TX but here you can see
the Shanghai and Shenzhen composite as
well both pointing lower today. Camcon
down about 2.3%.
Uh flipboard take a look at where we are
in the Hong Kong session as well. Uh we
bear in mind we did see the Hung tech
already touching the 200 day moving
average yesterday and we are breaking
below that now which takes us back to
the levels that we had last seen this
summer. Right. Hing tech off by about
2.6%.
I believe we're just about 100 over
points away from bare market territory.
Hing tech as well. Another day of
decline. We're headed for a weekly loss
this week. And take a look at uh all the
tech stocks here. all in the red and
HSBC want to watch because the company
said that it is now undergoing yet
another structural uh reform especially
in the trading division as the CEO
George Elder Harry saying that they want
to achieve more efficiency and more
client connectivity as the company aims
to be a debt financing powerhouse in the
region. But we take a look at some of
the chip stocks in China. Bear in mind
that China is a very different story and
yesterday we did not see these chip
names participate in the post Nvidia
rally and we are seeing a second day of
decline here. Big declines on Huah Hong
semi down by 3.6%.
Now what else we are watching in Asia of
course is the Hong Singh rebalancing
that is going to be announced after a
market close today. And we talk about
this every quarter. If you flip the
board, uh we'll show you some of the
names that analysts are talking about uh
when it comes to uh when it comes to the
favorites uh in terms of the additions
to the Hong Singh. Among them would be
the Xpong as well as a CL. But these two
are earning stories that we are
digesting overnight because net ease
reported earnings. Uh it was a miss when
it comes to revenue uh and uh profit
operating profit was down by about 13%.
Uh SASA looking unchanged. It was a net
income increase of 55% on year. So
pretty solid earnings there but not much
reaction on the stock right here.
>> Yeah min thank you so much uh on the
markets there. Yeah Sasa just to borrow
the makeup and cosmetic analogy there.
This market needs more than makeup to
feel good. Uh looking at today what it
needs Ivon is fast acting emodium. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. And looking at how it's it's
really to the downside everything
[laughter] else. Okay. Um let's get more
context on these markets as we try and
grapple with the correlations. So on
typically on good weeks that you know
the Chinese equity cohort tends to break
away in terms of correlation uh with the
rest of the world. Uh in the last few
weeks with all the vault that's picked
up and also the declines that
correlation has snapped back into
positive territory. Shout out of course
to our markets producer Anthony Stevens
for pointing this out for us uh to us.
Ian Samson is with us right now.
Fidelity International's multiasset
portfolio manager joining us out of his
office in in Singapore. Ian, good
morning. Thanks for coming on the show,
sir. And very very last minute. So, if
you guys had a morning call today, and
I'm [clears throat] assuming you guys
did, what was that like looking at what
happened overnight going into what we're
seeing right now?
>> Morning David. Morning Von. Um, look,
we've been waiting about 6 months for a
dip to buy, so we can't be complaining
too much. For now, this seems to be
positioning driven. You know, crypto
obviously down a lot. If you look at
baskets of retail favorite stocks,
they're down particularly heavily.
You're seeing completely unrelated
markets to to tech um acting really
weirdly. Like if I look at something
like European banks, they were up 6% in
3 days and down 7% in two days. They've
got nothing to do with, you know, open
AI or or fears around that. So, this
does seem to be a positioning driven
wash out. So for us, the best defense
was was ahead of time, owning a lot of
puts when when they were cheap, being
short credit, being some of the less
heavily positioned part of the market,
for instance, utilities, Japanese
midcaps on on stimulus expectations. So
really we're kind of bracing we're
looking to to buy the dip in some things
that that fundamentally the story is
still good but you know we just felt the
positioning and and maybe valuations had
got a little stretched.
valuations are getting stretched but
still that buy the dip mentality is
there and it's interesting right because
it seems like right now the market is
wondering two things frothy valuations
around AI and tech and the other is
whether the Fed can actually cut
>> or are they actually done
>> what's the the latter part of that
discussion looking like among your team
now
>> there's two things there's the question
around December and maybe there's the
the sixmonth view I think looking out
six months
It's and that of course includes the the
new chair coming in um some other
replacements to or rotations in terms of
who will be voting the the uh the
overall composition for the Fed looking
at 6 months is going to be meaningfully
more doubbish. We think they will
continue to cut interest rates. They
started why won't they continue? So, you
know, if we kind of look out beyond just
what's going to happen in the next four
weeks, that is still a important
underpinning of markets, um, the Fed
Reserve easing policy. In terms of
December, it's clearly up in the air. We
had the the minutes come out, uh, with
the Fed quite divided on whether it's a
cut or not. You know, markets are are
pricing and actually quite a low
possibility of a cut now. But if I look
at the labor market report last night,
you know, you had unemployment up still
over 3 to six months averaging very few
job gains every month. And now with
markets wobbling, I think there's
probably a a bigger chance than markets
are pricing in that they they go in
December.
>> Ian, if you could talk a little bit more
about what you mentioned too around you
were waiting for a month to buy for a
dip to buy.
>> Uh what would you be buying today?
today. Well, that's an interesting
question. But the things that are that
we're looking to buy, I think, is kind
of tech at a at a reasonable price. And
so, there's a few areas that that you
can look at. I still think Taiwan uh in
this region is probably the the best
value way of playing um the AI story.
And we do think AI capex is going to
continue for uh the foreseeable future.
Um what else could we be looking at? I
think that there's a lot of um grid
buildout names that are kind of tied up
in the AI data center trade. You know, a
lot of these names are in Europe.
There's also some in the US. Uh the kind
of power up grid names. They've got a
lot going on beyond just AI capex, the
AI story, and those are pretty
reasonably valued for um for the growth
potential, the sort of structural growth
there. So, those are two areas I' I'd
look at, the kind of grid and
electrification names and maybe some of
the tech names in in Taiwan.
>> Ian, I'm guessing this is the time of
the year where you your team is starting
to come up with the outlooks for 2026.
In terms of a multi-asset portfolio now,
what what should I look at as the best
asset class to outperform in 2026?
>> Oh gosh, I'm not sure uh I should spoil
the surprise. And of course these
outlooks always end up being uh wrong
about two weeks after after they're uh
they're put. So I mean our our view I
think is that the the underpinnings of
of markets will remain intact which is
easing policy from from the Federal
Reserve um and continued capex in the in
the AI names. And so I think we're still
biased to be risk on going into next
year, but you got to be doing it at the
right valuation. So still as a team,
we're we're quite cautious on credit
where you know it's it's almost uh
return free risk at this point. So I
think um probably sticking with that
that call of being moderately positive
on equities and looking to buy buy on
dips. And another area that we really
like is emerging market debt where
there's still I mean that's been holding
up really well in in in recent days. And
I think that's because it's it's kind of
uncorrelated to that AI story. It's
still good value. Um there's and it
plays that that easing uh of policy from
from the Federal Reserve.
Uh Ian, maybe sorry to push you on a
forecast because I know [laughter] you
almost just uh gave us a little bit of a
caveat just now, but I mean this is a
50/50 anyway. Is the assumption the
dollar continues
to weaken next year? You mentioned EM
debt or is there a risk that reverses
higher and causes all sorts of problems
across across the across the world?
Look, when I come to a view on on the
dollar, usually it's about the the
dollar smile. So, is the US going to be
so strong, the US economy going to be so
strong that it just sucks capital away
from the rest of the world, or is the US
going to be so weak um that everyone
just piles into the US dollar as a as a
safe haven asset? or are you going to be
in kind of the middle of those two
extremes where things are okay in the
US, the Fed isn't tightening policy, you
know, the rest of the world is doing
okay. That's usually when the dollar is
soft or or weaker. Um, and I think
looking out to next year, you're going
to be in the middle. I think sitting
today, we're in the middle of that. You
know, the US labor market is clearly
loosening. The Fed Reserve is not
tightening.
I would be biased to a softer dollar.
I'm not an uber dollar bear. I don't
think everyone's going to be running
away from the dollar. I think there's
some room for more FX hedging
strategically and it is expensive. But I
I more just think that there are good
carry trades um and good idiosyncratic
stories away from the US dollar that
that we'd be putting on. Uh particularly
in emerging markets uh within developed
markets, it can be or or or gold indeed.
within developed markets, it can be hard
to find a really exciting story to be
honest in in any of the major economies.
Maybe maybe the euro as a kind of best
of a
>> mediocre bunch.
>> Yeah.
>> Ian, you still think gold is a good
hedge?
>> Yeah, we we um took some of our gold
overweight down from from the very peak,
but we maintain a significant position.
the underpinnings of that which is very
loose policy um on both the monetary and
fiscal side in certainly the US I'd also
add Japan to that you know investors in
in China and India on the retail side
looking for places to put their money
and of course that flood of of
institutional capital reserve managers
buying buying gold
and I think the kind of the main thing
that had gone against gold was it had
become a speculative asset you don't
want gold to be a speculusive asset um
because then it starts to be positively
correlated with everything [snorts]
else.
>> So now that we've had a bit of a
positioning wipe out, you know, we had a
10% draw down from the highs, I think
it's it's a safe time uh to be adding to
gold as a diversifier, particularly out
of um not just the US dollar, but some
riskier currencies, something like, you
know, pound sterling. That can be a
really great riskoff hedge for for
portfolios.
>> Ian, it's great to have you. Thanks for
joining us. Ian Samson, their multiasset
portfolio manager at Fidelity
International, and we're watching, of
course, how these Hong Kong markets are
doing here right now. Uh we are seeing
Greater China is joining in on this
selloff. As Dave had alluded to earlier,
uh CSI 300 is down about 1%. Hang Sang
is also down close to 2% here. HStech, I
believe Dave, you mentioned, we are
hitting those levels now. That would
lead to a 20% down from the October
peaks that we saw.
>> We got we got close a few minutes ago.
We pulled back a little bit as we speak.
Suffice to say, it's still a very bad
day to be these in these markets. 5346,
that's the level to watch. That's just
over 3 and a half%. That gets us there.
Well, as they say, the night is young
and so are all of we. Plenty more ahead.
You're watching the China [music] Show.
Good morning.
Good morning. Welcome back to shows.
We're about 15 minutes into the greater
market uh cash market session. About
just 45 into Taiwan as they say when the
chips fall and they are falling quite
substantially today, the direct ones and
everything, the proxies and everything
in between. Uh that said, that's a
perfect segue into this next segment.
OpenAI partnering with Hanghai, also
known as Foxcon to design and also
manufacture hardware uh for data
centers. For more details, let's bring
in Belle, of course, our tech
correspondent joining us from Taipei. In
fact, uh today uh Belle.
>> Yeah, thanks David. This is a really
significant announcement. I think you've
got to sort of put it in context here
though because Foxcon already has an
indirect partnership with OpenAI. So uh
Foxcon is actually the biggest supplier
of AI server racks to Oracle. Of course
Oracle and and OpenAI partnering on
project Stargate in the US. So Foxcon is
very deeply integrated into the broader
infrastructure roll out and buildout
that we're seeing in the states today.
But this is the first time the two
companies are going to be working
directly with each other. And the focus
here is on really designing the the sort
of hardware that's going to be needed
for this AI revolution. And of course,
OpenAI is a company as well that's
starting to go in-house produce their
own chip infrastructure, the asset chip
infrastructure. Uh, and so they're
trying to move away, I guess, from that
reliance on Nvidia GPUs. So, Foxcon, it
will be really key for them to get
exposure to that process. So this
announcement today doesn't actually come
with any sort [music] of uh purchase
requirements but it will be interesting
to see how it evolves and also how
Foxcon plans to develop it is robotics
push in the US as well given [music]
that it's planning to make this
infrastructure in the states.
>> I I hear some violins in the background
and it looks like it's getting pretty
busy there right [laughter] now.
history.
>> It is Hanh high day. It was going to be
the key focus there. [laughter]
>> Yeah, that's well I mean orchestral it's
to be honest it's been very nice. I have
to say a live orchestral orchestra above
a live orchestra behind me. But yeah, we
are actually setting up. So we're about
10 minutes to go now until chairman
Yanglu takes the stage. I think he's
going to be outlining of course his
partnership with OpenAI. We'll get more
details on that but also how the company
is planning to to [music] move into new
higher value activities. And one of the
things that Chairman Yanglu is making a
bet on is a move into EVs. And they they
really think that this outsourcing
[music] breakpoint is going to come for
the broader EV industry where they're
going to actually do what they did for
the PC industry back in the late 1990s
[music] and and have it happen in the EV
space as well. So to that end, the
company's also been investing in battery
technology that they also see being
applied [music] across a range of
different industries. But I did speak
with the man who's leading that effort.
Take a listen.
Foxcon's best known for assembling Apple
iPhones and now is a major producer of
AI [music] servers. But here in the city
of Kaoong in southern Taiwan, a
different bed of chairman Yangu is
taking shape. His goal is to transform
the tech giant from traditional
manufacturer into a leader in new higher
margin activities. EVs, digital health,
and robotics are at the core. All of
which require power packs which Foxcon
wants to massroduce. Troy Woo heads up a
team tasked with achieving that goal.
>> In the future, we believe uh the scale
of the battery will will not smaller
than than the semiconductor [music]
itself.
>> But the company faces a tough path ahead
even with production of EV cells already
underway. First is materials with many
Foxcon suppliers relying upon China
which has been flexing its grip over
rare earths. Then there's competition
not just from across the Taiwan Strait,
but also battery heavyweights in Japan
and Korea, plus building out
distribution channels. So far, Foxcon
has just three buys for its vehicle
[music] product, though it's planning to
increase output in 2026.
Still, that's not a deterrent for the
company, which sees a big opportunity in
AI in particular. It already counts
[music] hyperscalers like Amazon,
Microsoft, and Alphabet among its
biggest customers, plus Nvidia. Now,
Foxcon's working on energy storage cells
that could become key to managing the
huge power demands of AI servers.
>> For the long-term consideration,
uh uh stable, uh power supplying for the
AI data center is very important for the
for AI data center operation. So battery
can play a very very important role.
>> There are links to other parts of
Foxcon's business. Currently uh uh fast
already uh take uh around 40%
uh server server server market
>> manufacturing market their customer uh
they all al always uh request the the
better uh the safer uh uh battery
technology and the better efficiency
server uh uh battery technology for
servers.
So uh we we now currently we walk we we
work with uh our uh BG or subsidies who
work with the uh the server client.
>> Foxcon's chairman is optimistic about
the business heading into next year and
says AI will be the biggest driver. It's
too early for batteries to contribute
any meaningful revenue, but they are
part of the long-term vision. in Taiwan.
Annabelle Droolers, Bloomberg News.
>> So, I think we really heard it there,
that big focus on on AI in particular.
It's it's interesting to note, of
course, in the context of this
partnership that's just been signed with
Open AI. I mean, energy storage systems,
they're becoming very very key to to the
buildout of AI infrastructure. So,
again, just waiting to see what Chairman
Yanglu says as he takes the stage in uh
yeah, 10 minutes from now. So, we're
going to be live with more details on
that one ahead.
>> All right, great stuff, Belle. Look
forward to that one. Our Asia tech
correspondent Annabelle Driller is there
in Taipei for Hanhai Day. And of course,
Belle will be speaking with Yonglu, the
Foxcon chairman, later on today about
the firm's AI outlook and impact on
business. You don't want to miss that
one. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
Some stories that we're tracking for you
here this morning. Banks led by Morgan
Stanley have finalized a sale of a $589
million in data center bonds by Server
Farm. Now, that deal was initially
delayed on concerns over the data cent's
reliance on revenue from Alibaba.
Sources say it was extended to address
investor jitters and add a new risk
disclosure section to [music] documents.
HSBC is restructuring its trade division
as part of CEO George Alheter's push to
make the lender a powerhouse in the debt
financing business. The bank [music] is
merging its G10 rates unit with its FX
and emerging markets rates and
commodities desks and to form a new
global macro division. An internal memo
also says the derivatives clearing
services will be folded into the global
equities team.
>> Speaking of equity markets, coming up on
your screens, the rather sorry state of
play today. And when you look at cross
uh well I guess onshore markets in Hong
Kong relatively speaking actually this
is relatively unscathed group uh with
the exception I guess of some of the
tech and growth plays and momentum names
of course 2.6% 6% to the downside on the
hingen tech index about about a
percentage point more than that takes us
about to bare market level. I guess we
can get to that later on. Hanging index
1.7 of course some changes uh as far as
the index is concerned. We can talk
about that I guess later. Shanghai comp
has now taken out and we're now 1% to
the downside. They're 3900 now uh south
of that level. Right. Let's set this
aside and really have a look at really
where most of the damage is so far. Uh I
can tell you the Cosby index at one
point was down the most since liberation
day. So we are talking the the extent of
those losses are real. We're seeing in
some pockets of the equity market today.
Mi Asia Pacific the index has cut
through the 50-day. We are nearing the
100 day moving average. We'll have
plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show live from the Bloomberg New Economy
Forum here in Singapore. It is day
three. We are wrapping things up here,
but still plenty of conversations to
come here throughout the next few hours
as well. and certainly coming on a day
where we are seeing a risk off across
these markets and the dramatic sort of
reversal that we're seeing when it comes
to the the AI trade and the like and
people are still kind of scratching
their heads and quite stunned what's
happened in the last maybe 12 hours or
so.
>> Well, we went to bed at let's call it
8:00 p.m. last [laughter] night. Let's
call it 8:00 p.m. Let's call it 8:00
p.m. Went to bed. Futures were higher.
Cash market was higher when I fell
asleep. When you woke up this morning,
you wouldn't know there was a 5%
intraday swing.
>> Yeah.
>> To the downside. the biggest one of
course since about 2021. But yeah, I
mean we were having this conversations
around what what what the trigger was
when you look at the correlations
snapping back when you look at greater
China for example which was largely
uncorrelated to the rest of the equity
complex in the last few weeks that snap
back together and as you can see on your
screens we're down about 2.6 on the
Hangen tech index 5346 is a level we're
tracking there about 1 percentage point
more that takes us into a bare market.
Uh just to delineate that for you, Asia
Pacific, we're down about 1.3%. Now, on
the musings that Ivon and I just amused
you with, uh we put those questions to
our guests on shows today. Here's what
they had to say about today's selloff.
>> Look, we've been waiting about 6 months
for a dip to buy, so we can't be
complaining too much. For now, this
seems to be positioning driven. You
know, crypto obviously down a lot. If
you look at baskets of resale favorite
stocks, they're down particularly
heavily. You're seeing completely
unrelated markets to to tech um acting
really weirdly. Like if I look at
something like European banks, they were
up 6% in 3 days and down 7% in two days.
They've got nothing to do with you know
open AI or or fears around that. So this
does seem to be a positioning driven
wash out.
What we are seeing is a midcycle
correction and to some extent markets
hitting an air pocket. I don't think
it's a turn in the cycle. I don't think
we have entered a bare market completely
but the correction is healthy. I do
think we will see potentially the wall
to stay high as we go into the year end
because there are a lot of factors
coming in play. You have the Fed cut,
you have the Fed chair announcement, you
have the question around the Fed
independence, you'll have BOJ coming
back an equation and you have weaker
China data. So the confluence of factors
I do think we'll see more wall as we go
into the year end.
>> Yeah. Some of the conversations we had
here on set uh with our guests really on
the markets seldom. So I think the point
that Naj was just mentioning there in
case some of our viewers missed that was
to him this is all the
>> trimmings of a midcycle correction.
Nothing indicates at the end of the
cycle. Of course, we don't know what the
Fed's going to do and when they're going
to do it and whether or not, of course,
the last two were the last ones of the
cycle. Um, and of course, I think Ian
just mentioned there they were waiting
for how long? 6 months.
>> Yeah. For some sort of budget sort of,
you know, entry point, and they say now
it could be the time to do so because
they still think that the Fed is going
to be able to cut. Maybe not December,
they said, but next year that could be
the the the there's still a six-month
window where we could look for uh some
sort of uh easing there from the Fed as
well. So um this on the back of of
course NEF as we wrap up of the last day
here in Singapore uh plenty of themes
right everything from the US China
discussion and really how Singapore of
of of many economies has actually been
thriving in in the face of all this you
know geopolitical tension in some ways.
We just wrapped up that conversation uh
with the Greek uh leader there talking a
little bit more about Europe uh in the
face of what you know this Russian and
Ukraine war that continues on as well
and the role that Europe plays. Let's
bring in our editor-in chief John
Mikluade. he just came off the stage and
joins us now. Thank you so much for
joining us.
>> Well, thank you.
>> I mean, it's been a great week. What has
been some of the surprise takeaways that
you've you've had so far? I think it's
that strange balance a bit like what you
were talking about although it's very
hard to work out what the trimmings were
in the [laughter]
but um in general it's that very it's
that dichotomy between the economy
especially in this region still pushing
ahead but this massive problem on the
geopolitics which you can see in
everything you can see when you talk to
the Singaporean prime minister trying
def desperately to balance between China
and America and then you can see it a
little bit with the Greek Greek prime
minister again, you know, an economy is
doing really well, but the issues around
him are Ukraine, but also what's going
wrong in the middle of Europe.
>> So, it's just it's a very hard world at
the moment to be a leader, and
especially one where American
leadership, I think, has
>> be either been too strong, some people
might say,
>> but it's a there's a very clear message
to the rest of the world that, you know,
you have to sort these things out
together, and that makes life quite
difficult. M did you get a sense that
based on I think the conversation you
had with Lawrence Wong for example right
now with the Greek leader um and I think
earlier on we had Richie Sunnak also
talking to us through this that
following the meeting in Korea between
the two presidents that things are
slightly better things are more
>> temporary temporary truce he called it
>> it's a temporary truce but then as you
as you cover regularly on your show the
um look what happened with Japan and
China
>> yeah So yes, it kind of goes forward in
in sometimes, but then there's always
this kicker coming in afterwards. And I
I do think it is that element that
everything around the world at the
moment or a lot of things around the
world has to been through seen through
that prism of China and America and how
it works and that that is a very
difficult thing. So quite normal
decisions even the Greek prime minister
you know the issue of the port of Pereus
the oldest port in the world in some
ways you know something you assoc
associate with the Odyssey or whatever
you know there the issue is the Chinese
own it do the Americans like it not much
>> here you look at all the decisions
Singapore is having to make about what
happens to Chinese money coming here
what do they do about if America
withdraws support it's the same thing
again and again but it's very very
awkward to look through but yes I think
there has been a a slight deescalation
although it's with the Japan thing it's
hard to say that completely
>> and at what point the eur the US might
actually step in in that discussion too
it's interesting what Gina Renundo
mentioned too that America first doesn't
mean America alone that this the message
that she wanted to relay coming here to
Singapore was that you know America
still wants to do business with this
part of the world and don't forget that
how do you think that message was you
know, relayed and and the response from
the crowd really.
>> Gina Roondo is a fantastic um um
interpreter of that message, but I'm not
quite sure that's really the message
coming so much from the administration.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it is it is I think it is very much
America first from them
>> and it's sort of sort yourselves out and
Gene had to do that quite difficult job
of going around and selling the the the
previous administration's policy towards
the region and that that was hard. But
with Trump, it's even clearer. You know,
you you you it's like you have to get on
and do these things by yourself. And I
think America to that extent, you know,
it is a very different America. And I
think the other thing about alliances
and you see that I was in Seoul the
other day, you see that and and Japan
during the time of liberation day is
that people when when you're an ally of
someone, it's not a question of being
like a 70% ally or in a six if you're
not you're not an ally if you're that.
You're either all in or you're not. And
especially you get to soul as you know
you very close you got the DMZ.
It's it's impossible not to think that
you either have to rely on America
completely or you can't rely on it.
>> And that I think is that that's a very
changing dynamic and you see them going
through that. You see the Gulf countries
also thinking about that. See places
like Estonia thinking about that. This
morning you've got the a very Russian
influenced Ukraine peace plan. So I
think it is that big element, you know,
of of what is happening in the back of
the world. America is pulling out of it
or leaving other people to try and make
choices and that's that's part of the
interest. It's a very interesting world
to be a journalist in possibly a harder
world to be a politician in.
>> Right. And I think you mentioned during
your conversation with Lawrence Wong
like journalist can be unoriginal at
some point in terms of being able
>> but the problems are still there.
>> But the problems are still there. you
know the binary nature of people having
to pick a side and the reason I frame it
that way is a big market like India for
example a big emerging market like India
has somehow been able to manage that
binary nature of it talking Russia or
Ukraine as well but yeah what's what
does a market like India for example fit
into
>> India is fascinating India is where
we're taking the new economy forum next
year to advertise that but India is in a
very interesting position you know it is
it is still the great coming power
obviously in terms of um of GDP perhead
way lower than China way lower than the
rest but it is it it is rising very
clearly and it's becoming another force
here and what's quite interesting is you
can look at some things like when Modi
met Xi Jinping it was quite interesting
looking at it from a purely American
point of view that was seen entirely
through the eyes of what it means for
Donald Trump are they ganging up against
him how did they work with Putin what
you know what's North Korea up to? But
then if you look at it from this region,
you know, there are a lot of reasons why
China and India, you might argue for
most of mankind's history, probably the
two biggest economies, there there's a
there's a very big reason why those two
countries should be talking to each
other anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> But at this precise moment, um things
are dominated by a man from Washington
who likes dominating these things. So
even India, I think, is slightly caught
in that.
Uh seems like there much more
conversations to come next year from
India. John, it's great to have you here
joining us on our program. John
Miklweight there, our Bloomberg editor
in chief. Uh let's get back to markets.
Certainly that's still a key story here
today. Asian stocks really joining the
selloff that really started and quite
dramatically overnight in the US. Let's
get to our Abishek Vishnoy. He's our
senior Asia equities reporter. Abby,
what's going on today? What's your team
watching out for?
Well, it looks like uh you know the
crowded AI trade has been trimmed uh to
an extent but uh nothing to you know uh
worry in terms of writing obituary of
the AI trade. Um there was some optimism
going into the US session but it did not
sustain. you saw markets actually rising
by you know a few percentage points and
then by then closing by a few percentage
points lower and that shows intraday
reversal that shows that you know
sellers overpowered uh buyers uh so
bears have an upper hand right now and
remember this is Friday so if let's say
US markets close lower on a weekly basis
obviously you know this is not a very
positive signal for the near term
because you know technical picture
sentiment seems to be weakening But if
you look take a step back and look at
the uh you know fundamentals part of it,
Nvidia did deliver earnings. So there is
no issue with the earnings. The second
half of next year probably uh you know
when POW gets replaced you know would be
filled with rate cuts. Uh there is also
uh you know um some semblance that China
would be able to maintain uh its
valuations at current levels at least
and there would be some improvement on
earning side. Uh so therefore you know
there are a lot of these factors out
there which are pointing to uh you know
um this pain being just there for the
short term and and even you know going
into December you know I don't agree
that year end is going to be really bad.
December actually has very nice
seasonality for a lot of markets
including some AI powerhouses like
Taiwan. So you know there would be you
know this tug of war between bulls and
bears. I think December might be
positive and going into 2027 there are a
lot more positive things to look at. Now
once US fell you know that sentiment is
getting aped in uh you know Asian AI
trades as well. Korea is down, Japan is
down. We are seeing Taiwan also falling
by 3 percentage points. HStech which was
already into a correction mode is now
moving closer to a technical uh you know
bare market sort of milestone. So you
know things are getting uh you know
deepened in terms of selling but uh it
looks uh very short-term. It looks like
a tactical trade rather than a change of
regime.
Abby, the obviously we're we're we're
feeling the uh the pain here in the Asia
Pacific as you just uh enlightened us on
there. Uh I look at US futures though
are seeing somewhat of a I'm going to
call somewhat of a bounce because I
haven't even I haven't looked at volumes
and really just to underscore the
whether there's any conviction there.
But how would you interpret the the
positive price action across futures? I
mean, is this going to be over sooner
than most people think?
>> Uh, I mean, um, for today's session, it
still looks a bit weak out there. I
mean, given Nvidia has become the
bellweather indicator. I mean, of
course, it's a bellweather company,
world's most valuable company. If you
look at the blue ocean trading, David,
you know, I think the stock is still
down about 7 odd percent. So, um, that
is a bit worrisome. So there might be
more declines here but um I I I won't be
you know able to extrapolate that into a
very grim future for for the markets in
the month of December and the next week
might see some sort of consolidation
after you know we see overnight falls
that's the base case scenario that
traders are building right now and then
from there we'd see how things evolve. I
mean there would be data points to
watch. Um the 20 this is the 21st day of
this month. So you know we'll see those
uh monthly exports figures coming out
from Korea. Um and then uh you know the
December 1st we'll see the full monthly
figure. Um yesterday I wrote something
if you if you marry what Nvidia has
delivered and said about the future to
what Korea exports have done in October
a 25% year-on-year growth. This actually
is you know um a very confident signal
for for you know AI and especially pick
and shovel stocks that we have in Asia.
So um um you know jury is still out but
I'm still hopeful that seasonality rate
cuts uh earnings that are coming in
would keep this market on on a decent
footing as we go into December and and
year end.
All right, Abishek. Fantastic. Thank
you. Abishek Fresho there, our senior
Asia equities reporter have well helping
us look through this looking through of
course the current malaise. Looking
forward to December. In the meantime
though, it's still the what did what was
it? Guns and Roses song. November, the
cold November drain is what we're
calling it across these markets. Yeah,
and we'll have plenty more conversations
really about markets and the like here
from the Bloomberg New Economy Forum
coming up, including the former US
Secretary of Commerce, Gina Raymondo,
joining us. [music] This is Bloomberg.
[music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show live from the Bloomberg New Economy
Forum in Singapore. Of course, as we
wrap up, let's talk a little more about
the VC side of things. Uh joining us now
is Chibo Tang, managing partner at
venture capital firm GOI Partners. A
company manages $1.6 billion in assets
and has invested in over 400 startups
since 2002. Now expanding to countries
like Pakistan and Bangladesh. Uh it's
great to have you here in Singapore. I
mean, it seems like you guys have been
pretty busy. seven exits this year.
What's the outlook for 2026 look like
for you?
>> Look, I mean, like we we we hope that
the uh the market continues to stay uh
good and you know, the the IPO markets
and the secondaries continue to perform.
Um obviously, you know, there's a lot of
talk of bubbles and things like this. Um
you know, I think we we just continue to
invest in in fundamentals and and
long-term. So, you know, as early stage
investors, I mean, I think we're we're
we're focusing a lot on frontier
technologies, uh, deep technology areas
coming out of universities and the like.
And so, you know, I think hopefully we
will be a little bit more immune to
psych cycles and, you know, uh, if the
bubble does break, then, you know, at
least we'll well set for the future.
>> Do I think the point you just made,
you're very connected to [clears throat]
really what's happening on the ground
and all these these frontier
technologies. What's what are the
attitudes of these founders right now?
How do they feel about the current
environment? Uh because when you look at
yes the public market there seems to be
a bubble but I don't know how it how
does it feel on the ground at that
level?
>> Well to be honest I mean at the early
stage most founders are still focused on
their their own product and building
their own companies right and so you
know they believe in a long-term vision
of you know where their product will be
in 5 years and 10 years. I mean I don't
think anyone is really thinking about
you know the IPO pathway or looking to
list and in the near term. I mean I
think what they're what they're dealing
with now is just trying to find product
market fit. um trying to think about
what is the future of this technology
right um and these days I think a lot of
uh founders especially coming out of
China most people are thinking about
global markets right and so they're
thinking about how to set up abroad
thinking about uh where to expand and
how to do that successfully so you know
I think these days I mean I think it's
really the public market investors
institutional uh investors that are that
are more worried
>> given the whole AI story I'm just
wondering there's so we talk about the
amounts of money that's been slloshed
around how people are you know tens of
billions of dollars that really being
thrown into it.
>> Do you feel like there's just too much
money chasing too little deals right
now?
>> Um I I think that obviously there there
has been a narrative that's been spun in
the US and you know I think uh the US
has capital markets that are very deep.
Uh and so there is a lot of money that
is going after some of these you know
more talented or you know the the
entrepreneurs with the strong
backgrounds and you know the track
records and all this. I think obviously
here in Asia the the capital markets are
not as deep and so you know there's less
money but you know they're still chasing
these strong founders and and and people
with the backgrounds um you know I would
say that um you know because there is
less money out here the founders and the
startups are are trying uh alternate
ways to to bring these products to
market right and so it's not necessarily
bigger is better out here I think
everyone's trying to find the best use
cases the best industries um and
alternate pathways right and So I think
that's something that that we're seeing
and you know with this creativity I
think there will be new uh
breakthroughs.
>> I'm not sure if you were in the there
was one of the discussion in the panels
I think it was yesterday or the day
before first day. Mark Rowan of Apollo
>> had a very interesting comment. I want
to get your thoughts on that. He said,
you know, the the the private markets
have changed substantially over over
years
>> in that to Ivon's point, there's been a
lot of money, a lot of interest going
into that. And
>> you know, as a private company, you now
have the option of staying private for
longer because you're able to raise
frankly the same amount of money in the
private markets that you would have as
an I. How does that have you observed
any of those trends in your world and
how does that change things for a player
like you?
>> Yeah. No, for sure. I mean I think um
obviously for for companies um that have
been able to grow to a certain scale and
and have been able to prove out their
business model um you know I think that
they don't have that much pressure if
especially if they are uh have a very
strong cash position either they're
revenue generating they're they're
turning but not profitable um and you
know I think then they have a lot of
interest on the secondary markets and so
even with uh earlier stage investors
that want to exit they actually can
generate enough interest on the
secondary so that you know they can help
uh facilitate those transactions. So
they actually don't need um to list and
so I think you know with uh more in
certain market um kind of prospects I
think these companies will choose to
stay uh private for longer um although
you know I I was speaking to some
entrepreneurs the other day and they're
just like you know there there are other
benefits to listing right I mean like in
terms of added credibility in terms of
you know uh access to more uh different
sources of capital so you know I think
every company will have its own
situation.
>> Sure. Um what tell us more about this
partnership that you have with the Hong
Kong Investment Corp, the Sovereign
Wealth Fund. Uh also what's so the
universities when it comes to kind of
this technological transfer and the
like. Why focus on universities and
these deals?
>> Yeah. No, so so we've been very lucky
obviously. I mean like we've been um I
I've been based in and operating in Hong
Kong for about 10 years now. Uh one of
the earliest investors in the space. Um
you know I think as a as a key proponent
of that ecosystem, we've been very lucky
now to partner with the HKIC. Um and you
know this year just uh we actually
announced a new fund uh uh focused on
the Hong Kong University ecosystem and
you know that's that's an area where we
feel like there's a lot of opportunity
going into the next decade. Um you know
this this day and age I mean deep tech
is the future right and so um a lot of
that deep tech will be driven from IP um
and the R&D efforts of these
universities over the last few decades.
there haven't been that many uh success
cases in terms of commercialization um
in here in Asia uh versus you know what
you see at MIT or Stanford and so I
think that there is a huge opportunity
here where you know Hong Kong is now
home to five of the top 100 universities
in the world
>> right and you know those five are all in
the top 10 in Asia so you know Hong Kong
universities ranked number one in Asia
and you know I think that there is a lot
of opportunity here um going forward we
only see these university continue to
get better because you know there's a
lot of talent coming back right and so
whether that's from the US or you know
from other parts of the world I think
everybody is seeing the opportunity and
and the you know the government support
and and the institutional support out
here and so that draws a lot of talent
back and I think uh that will be a very
interesting uh opportunity set going
forward
>> was that the thing that changed that the
talent that's coming back because we're
trying we were trying to pinpoint what
the pivot point was [clears throat] and
suddenly you know Hong Kong was known as
a traditional finance hub
>> not so much as a tech startup
>> hub
>> and now of Of course, people like you
are looking at this.
>> Yeah. No, I think it's like a confluence
of a few different factors. Obviously,
the the talent um coming back is is one
important one. Um but I think, you know,
the the the government in Hong Kong has
also just been very good in putting
together all these um ancillary programs
and and subsidy programs and grants and,
you know, just being able to be active
in in funding this this uh this
commercialization wave. Uh the
universities themselves are putting
together their own funding programs,
investing in their own ecosystem. Um and
you know from the private market side
yeah there's been a lot more interest in
investors uh from not only Hong Kong but
you know from China and even the rest of
the world to come in and and look at
these opportunities. So you know these
days I mean like we're we're investing
in uh very early stage startups but very
quickly they're able to attract other
investor interests. They're doing two
three rounds in a year. Um and so we're
very lucky right I mean in our in our
fund we've already deployed in four or
five deals and you know all of them have
actually have upbr
it's been a good time. Chibo, fantastic.
Thank you so much. Let's do this again,
sir. Thank you. Chibibo Tang there, of
course, managing partner at GOI uh
partners. Lots more coming up here, of
course, out of the new economy forum
taking place. BDA China's chairman is
joining us in a couple of minutes uh
[music] very, very shortly. This is
Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are hanging to that lunch break in just
a moment. We all need that break, I
think, to kind of just wrap our heads
about what's been really going on.
Nic225 is down some 2% right now. Now
the rest of Asia is doing a 1 and a.5%
lower here. But really the bigger, you
know, who's bearing the brunt of the
sell-off I would say is is the Japans,
it's the Taiwans, it's the Koreas here
today. China, relatively speaking, is
doing a little bit better, but you know,
Japan itself is dealing with its own
sort of issues, right? You're talking
about a dollar yet at 157 levels here
right now. We had some bit more verbal
intervention, I guess, from policy
makers this morning.
>> Yeah, it's it's complicated today for
Japan.
>> Yeah,
>> cuz we have this obviously broad
selloff. uh you have intervention risk
which we'll get into in a moment and
then you have the inflation print and
then now you have the central bank
governor
>> fiscal package coming out
>> talking so it's it's looking like
actually uh when you look at the macro
it does seem more appropriate in terms
of uh to have an assumption that the yen
strengthens given the rates environment
and the stimulus at work there but
obviously markets have gone the opposite
way and we're at 157 158 let's bring in
let's bring in Brian Brian Fowler u our
North Asia government senior editor
joining us out of Tokyo uh to discuss
all of this. Brian, why don't we start
with uh y intervention which obviously
happens on a spectrum and where do you
think we are on that spectrum?
Yeah. So, the first thing I would say is
these comments are never random. Going
back decades back to the uh dramatic era
of ASK Sakibara and even before that in
the '9s, Japan uh moth officials get
together in the morning and they decide
what the response is going to be to any
kind of overnight moves. So, the message
is is choreographed. It's it's edited to
to convey a certain feel from officials
of how they how they see the markets and
when things are calm they'll just say
something like well we are watching the
market every day which is which means
everything's fine. This morning finance
minister Katayama said ready to take
appropriate action if needed and she
said intervention remains among our
options. That doesn't necessarily
meanvention is intervention is imminent
but it certainly opens the way for it to
happen. She's sent the warning and I
would just say that the last time Ma
intervened was in July 2024 when the
dollar was around 160. We did have a
member of a panel that advises the prime
minister speaking in an interview that
we published this morning takuji Ida
saying that he thinks intervention could
actually happen before the dollar the
yen reaches that 160 threshold. So be on
alert. One last thing I would say about
that is that the last among the times
the the BOJ and MOAF intervened last
time around, one one batch came on late
on a Friday night as Japan was heading
into a three-day holiday. We just
happened to be heading into a three-day
holiday now and it's Friday. All things
being equal, who knows? But, uh, just
want to put that out there.
>> Yeah. We'll look out for any sort of
signs, right? you mentioned long
weekends maybe could be the signal. Um
let's talk about the data that we got
because that core CPI number that we
got.
>> I mean that was quite hot still and when
you add dollar yen at 157 there is still
that threat of of stoking inflation
given the weakness in the currency. Does
this all just support the case for the
BOJ to hike soon?
>> Yeah, it absolutely does. So CPI stays
at 3%. It's been at or above the BOJ's
2% target now for 43 straight months.
And and even today, some of the
underlying trends we saw picked up a
little bit. We saw service price gains
accelerate to 1.6%
and we saw other signs of of uh that
that the trend is rising. And uh I think
also over the weekend, I mean that
that's another good reason to go ahead
and lift interest rates. It didn't.
Katayyama's remarks this morning didn't
really have a sustained impact and I
guess that's because there's a notion
that the US Japan interest rate
differential might not narrow as we had
thought at one point. There's been some
backtrack in terms of forecast of a Fed
cut and of course some people are
thinking that in Japan it's hard for UEA
to hike rates now with the prime
minister uh being very stimulus favor in
favor of stimulus and putting out this
package. And having said all that, it's
the BOJ is definitely on the the track
towards towards a hike and and really
the question is is it December or is it
in January?
>> Yeah, it it looks like it's going to
come because let me let me put two
things together. I want your your your
take on this, Brian. Right. So, this
massive fiscal package uh largest since
the pandemic is about to hit this
economy
um at a time when inflation is high. The
last time we had that and you replaced
Japan with the US, we had this massive
inflation issue across the world and the
Fed had to catch up at hike interest
rates. Talk to us about that spending
plan, that number.
>> Well, as you say, it's the biggest most
ambitious uh spending plan we've seen
since the pandemic. So, it definitely
should give the economy a very good
boost. Another thing I want to say
though is that Governor UEA met with
Takayichi earlier this week and he
talked about the path of of policy and
what he said was uh it's a normalization
path. We're raising interest rates. What
we're really doing is rolling back the
degree of easing. We're not talking
about creating tight economic
conditions. We're talking about rolling
back the degree of easing. So even if
the BOJ were to hike by another quarter
point, uh the rate would be
accommodative and I think she
understands that. He said that she
understood that view. So that gives the
BOJ [clears throat] room to go ahead and
hike rates while still staying
consistent with the government's push to
be stimulative.
>> All right, Brian. Thank you, Brian.
Follow there, our North Asia government
senior editor, joining us out of Tokyo
here this morning. Now to some other
stories that we're following in Japan.
The US ambassador to Japan says
Washington has Tokyo's back and its
ongoing dispute with China. George Glass
accused Beijing of economic coercion and
says some of the Chinese reaction has
been quote outrageous. He also confirmed
the US treaty pledge to defend Japan,
including over some islands disputed by
Tokyo and Beijing. [music]
One Japanese lawmaker told Bloomberg the
country should leverage its alliance
with the US to counter China's threats
rather than seeking quick compromises.
[music]
>> Fundamentally, we absolutely must not
yield to intimidation. Once we give into
threats, everything, our economy and
everything else becomes their weapon.
And estimates from China trading desk
show Japan could lose out on as much as
$1.2 billion dollars by year end as
would be travelers from China cancel
their trips amid the worsening
diplomatic spat. Tensions have flared
after Prime Minister Sai Takichi became
the first sitting Japanese leader in
decades to publicly link a Taiwan
straight crisis with the potential
deployment of Japanese troops. [music]
China has dismissed Japan's claim that
its Taiwan policy remains unchanged and
repeated its demand that Takichi retract
her remarks over the island.
>> Right. Uh we're about
66 going on 67 minutes into the cash
market session and yeah, a quick glance
at the big Chinese tech names and
certainly not immune to what we're
seeing across the region. Uh we're down
about 2.3 on Jindong. Uh BU is down
about six and a half. Tension is about
1.7 and Baba's down about 4%. H is
stack. Oo, we're close. Okay, we're now
about Okay, let me just do some simple
math which I can't do for some reason.
>> Like a few dozen points. 20 20 something
points. Yeah,
>> uh 5346. That's a level to watch. Okay,
that's going to be make it simple. Um we
enter a bare market if we close below
that level on the benchmark below on
your screens, right? Uh that's just to
say, of course, we're pivoting back to a
focus on Chinese tech right now. Uh you
have of course Baba reporting next week
among many many things. of course worth
tracking given the fundamental story and
this comeback uh in in Chinese tech.
Joining us here on set, Duncan Clark,
chairman of BDA China. It's a tech
advisory firm that's also now opening
offices in Japan and of course here we
are in Singapore. Duncan, good morning.
Thanks for taking the time to speak with
us.
>> Thank you very much. We're actually
opening office in Singapore actually
also in January. So
>> yeah, the China impact is is is
spreading in terms of looking at what's
happening in China. We need to be in
places like Japan and and throughout
Southeast Asia and also [clears throat]
Mumbai where I'm heading on Saturday.
>> There we go. the things our business is
picking up. What have you been most busy
with say this year?
>> It's really the China impact. So
studying what's happening in China
whether it be open source AI as we've
been hearing with Alibaba and others
obviously starting with DeepSeek earlier
this year. It's not so much about, you
know, money seeking to go into China,
although there's some uh sense that
that's coming back a little bit, but
limited from the US, but the China
impact, understanding China, what's
happening there, because it's going to
come to you if you don't understand
what's happening. That is driving a lot
of demand right now.
>> I mean, we talk about that deep seat
moment. It seems like every few months
we get a new language model that comes
out from some of these AI labs in China.
Now, is that sort of the new normal that
we're we're expecting to see coming
through? Yeah, I mean, you know, people
like Mark Andre have been saying, you
know, 80% of the the pitches that come
into his office in Silicon Valley are
using uh Chinese uh you know, open
source AI. [laughter]
>> Yeah. Who who's going to win though? Is
it going to be the the the tech giants
like Alibaba, the bite dances, or you
look at some of these startups like
Moonshot, Mini Max?
>> I think if you have the infrastructure
like Ali Cloud, obviously that that's a
much stronger proposition. We're seeing
the same in the US by the way. You know,
those you know, we've seen look what's
happened with Alphabet and Google's, you
know, versus say, you know, Meta maybe
doesn't have the same sort of cloud
business. So the same dynamic is
happening in China's and the US that if
you have the infrastructure you you have
a homec court advantage
>> on the China impact that you just talked
about now there the obvious or the not
so obvious right now let's start with
the not so obvious like what do people
need to understand about you know how
this how I feel the China impact in a
not so obvious way
>> yeah I mean um it's you're just talking
about Japan and I'm spending a lot of
time in Japan also um you know there's a
gap uh in you know these two very large
economies right next to each other. Uh
that's been for some time. For example,
you don't see Japanese salary men and a
few women going into China anymore. I
noticed that when I'm flying between
Tokyo and Beijing. And actually, uh by
the way, cheap cheap deals. I hate to
say that, but uh you know, there is this
disconnect uh we've had that before
between China and India. Interestingly,
now um with what's happening with India
and the United States, there's been a
bit of a look again from India towards
China, I think.
>> So, you know, it's it's Asia as we know
is huge. Um but there are some
interesting uh opportunities now because
of information uh uh dymmetry or the
inability for example Chinese to get
visas to go to India easily but actually
they need to understand each other. The
same is now happening with Japan and
China. So I mean companies like
Bloomberg are in a good place you know
to like get the information to where it
needs to be. I'm not sort of pitching
you for that but it it is true that we
are we are starved for that
persontoerson contact. These events are
very useful. Um, so I I think there
there is an opportunity to double down
on information and insight and you know
more signal to the noise.
>> I I I want to reference your book. I
mean how's that Jack Maul built? How
many years ago was that 2016?
>> The book came out 20 in nine years ago
2016 updated up until 2019 and then of
course 2020.
>> So So what's I know you're I heard
you're writing another book about
Alibaba now. What is it going to be?
What do you pick up?
>> I want to call it AI Baba because you
know [laughter]
>> just drop the L. Well, I mean, Alibaba
has reinvented itself. I I think, you
know, it looks like a spelling error,
but hey, let's [laughter] work with it.
Um, but it, you know, it is amazing how
Alibaba was very much a, you know, uh,
more surface level e-commerce company,
one could say, uh, versus a deeper tech.
You know, Tencent was more of an
engineering company, but now that's no
longer the case, um, because the
investments in cloud and this amazing,
uh, opportunity with open source, uh,
LLMs that Alibaba is showing. So Alibaba
is in a better place from a regulatory
standpoint being a deeper tech company,
but it's also in the right place where
it needs to be on on AI. Uh we'll see
what happens with the results next week.
Obviously, there were some strange
stories last week about US defense
issues with Alibaba, but you know,
>> the military connection.
>> I I don't know, but Alibaba is a serious
player now in in the global tech sphere
uh as well as this e-commerce giant.
It's no longer seen as the e-commerce
giant that was losing market share. Uh
you know, we're beyond that. Alibaba has
now changed the dynamic. And so there's
a new generation also of Chinese tech
companies coming forward. And you
mentioned some, you know, interesting
companies. So it's it's a highly dynamic
market, very competitive, and a lot of
these Chinese companies at early stages
want to get out. I'm actually wearing
these smart glasses from a company in
Shenzhen that is not targeting the
Chinese market because it's too
competitive. I have what you have.
>> What do they do? What do they do?
>> I have heads-up display right now. So I
have live translations.
>> I was about to say because you when you
move your head, something reflects a
little box there.
>> So I have teleprompter. I can have uh
transcripts. Yeah. So I'm so I'm sorry
but interviewers are going to take on
the interviewers. Now we have the same
information you guys have. I kind of see
what you're looking at. [laughter] So
but the point is this is a Shenzhen
company guy used to work at Apple came
back to China. So there's a talent uh
explosion in China. Chinese talent is a
global good I would say whether it be AI
or biotech. The US China tensions have
obviously made it very complicated. But
you know China and India together
graduate most of the talent in
engineering as we know. So whoever is
going to win in in this new world will
have to tap in somehow to this talent
and that's that's the game right now.
>> And it seems like in some ways investors
are rewarding that approach that China
has had with open source is that you
know it's less advanced chips
but the budget spend is much lower than
the US. Um and the return on equity or
return on investment seems to be more
because it's cheaper
>> for free in some reason in some cases.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean there's an English
saying a British saying of you know
cheap and cheerful. This is like chip
and cheerful like you know China doesn't
have the chips at the high end as we
just heard Mike Waltz was confirming
this morning you know the black wells
are not going to go to China but China's
finding workarounds it's driving
innovation and so the level of activity
and drive and the competition within
China is so intense it's creating
companies and the irony is companies
like open AI are not open as we know and
indirectly the Chinese government
stumbled into you know open- source
models actually being a way forward for
them. So it's a very confusing world
when the open company is closed and the
supposedly closed China is open. I you
know I find it very confusing.
[laughter] That's why I need the help of
information.
>> Yeah.
>> Well the what we've seen this year
following the deepseek moment is the the
government's reset its relationship
somewhat from the outside when you look
at things with the private sector
specifically the tech sector
>> um really as a way to when you look at a
competition between the US and China. In
fact, when you look at what the US is
doing with Intel, it's almost like the
US is also getting involved in their
tech sector.
>> Confusing, right?
>> Yeah. It's almost like you interchange
the names and then you get a sort of
more consistent
>> which is the state plan. Yeah. Anyways,
>> that gets us into something different.
But what I get your take is what do I
need to be watching out for in terms of
that relationship between the government
in China, the Chinese government and its
and its tech sector. Yeah, clearly I
mean there was uh an over uh clampdown
let's say on the back of the property
sector clamp down the jack and other
tech sector you know we saw with zero co
it was like three things together uh the
government uh ultimately I think
recognized the fact that it needs to
work closer with the private sector and
don't forget this came on the heels of
uh President Trump's inauguration where
he was literally his family was amidst
the tech titans in the United States so
there's been a shift I mean the you know
the rise of tech companies to become
almost nation in states internationally
but within countries very powerful
players. China's you know the CCP is not
going to sort of hand over the keys to
you know tech companies but there is
clearly a desire to cultivate innovation
in this all ef all all effort against US
attempts to isolate China. So you know
one can argue whether you know the US is
helping or hindering China's rise. It's
a bit of both I would say. Um but I
think uh governments now realize the
importance that AI uh and other areas
like quantum advanced manufacturing I
mean China's 55-year plan which is
coming out it gives you a very detailed
blueprint of their ambitions and you
know China is run by engineers as you
know Dan Wong wrote in his great book
breakneck you know too many lawyers in
the United States maybe too many
engineers in China [laughter] but you
know maybe too many engineers is better
than too many lawyers I don't know how
many in the room here but to be careful
you can check the glasses for
>> yeah exactly [laughter]
>> and how do you see that play out though
the this whole AI AI race is is it just
going to be something that's decoupled
between the US and China or do you see
that there is going to be some
bilateralism in some ways of these two
different
>> Yeah that's a great question and I think
that's the essence of what I'm trying to
get to in my new book is going to be
about how if AI is you know an American
AI for the US and China for China no
it's actually one there's the global
south and even Europe now we see and
even in the US buying like uh open
source AI I mean Airbnb for example is
adopting Alibaba quent you know So, so
that's confusing. One theme I'm really
interested now is like the the elite may
talk about national security and all
this stuff, but the laing as we say in
China, you know, average Joe, the main
street, they want cheaper robotics, they
want better products, EVs, etc. If China
is increasingly making stuff that people
want and in a high inflation west, we're
going to see some interesting debates
like saying, "Yeah, fine, national
security, that's great, but I just want
to reduce my cost of living. I want to
improve my mobility, for example, with
these strap-on robots that you see, you
know. So, it's an interesting dynamic
that China's making stuff that people
want. They're making too much of it, by
the way.
>> And as a result, they're having to go
global very early on, in some cases,
foregoing the Chinese market, which is
suffering under
>> almost like a K-shaped, you know, the
same thing we see in the United States,
we see it, uh, a split screen economy in
China with flashy objects, tech, and
actually the property market. market. We
just saw yesterday the Chinese
government saying they need to
stimulate, you know, housing market. So,
both China and US kind of resemble each
other. Actually, they have these split
screen economies.
>> Split screen. I like that. Duncan, we
could talk all day. Um, but we look
forward to the next book. Of course,
Duncan Clark, chairman of BDA China. Uh,
we're going to take a quick break. Of
course, we could talk a lot about, you
know, what's been going on. There's a
panel that's underway there here at the
Capella there. That conversation is with
the Bit Deer technology [music] CEO,
Jihan Woo, speaking with our very own.
>> Yeah, you might know her.
>> [music]
>> because it involves design our own code
of EDA [clears throat]
software that's very time consuming.
It's kind of a delayed uh but uh I still
have some confidence that our team may
deliver it and then if we can be
successful we can license such kind of
uh uh patents to other uh GPU or TPU
designers in the world to reduce the
power usage on their chip. Uh and we
have also been doing very good on the
traditional Bitcoin chip design. Mhm.
>> We have low problems to improve the
power efficiency. Uh even though the
innovation uh very innovative uh design
methodology may got a delay, may got a
risk.
>> So you're you're designing those chips
and then you're getting a manufactured
by TSMC. Yes.
>> In Taiwan. Um when we talk about all of
these companies, the geopolitical risk
always keeps coming up. How do you view
that? Yeah, I think we are already in
kind of reality uh that the national
security concerns uh for the major
countries overwhelm the pursue of uh the
uh economic efficiency. I think we are
already in this kind of reality. We
adapt to it. So we rely on one side of
the supply chain and we operate and
we're doing business on one side of the
uh world. Uh so that's a reality we have
to accept and we adapt it very well.
>> And you also have facilities in Nevada
that you're expanding.
>> Uh yes, we are um building up uh the
Bitcoin mining rake manufacturing
uh factory in Nevada. I think that's
actually quite unusual back in few years
ago because all this kind of OEM there
factories are doing Asia. We already
found out it's very different. If you we
want to manufacturing those mining rates
in US, it needs to be more um automized.
We need to design more machines.
Actually, some of the machines actually
are a lot economic in Asia because the
labor here is uh very cheaper and uh
>> and it's much more easier to recruit uh
uh very good uh uh trained workers. But
it's very different in US. the uh salary
is much higher and it's hard to recruit.
So those machines uh in US will be much
easier to get the investment paying back
uh considering the uh context. Um so we
are accumulating experience uh by
uh setting up such manufacturing it uh
hopefully can be ready at the middle of
uh next year. And just quickly as we
wrap up um what do you think is a major
geopolitical risk and opportunity for
you in the next few years?
>> Uh I think the next few years uh the AI
uh revolution
>> should we just say next year because
technology transition is so fast.
>> Uh I think it will take a few years for
the air revolutions to spread really
worldwide. Right now the air revolution
mostly concentrated in United States. uh
it's still there but later we will see
uh the developing countries to catch up
uh in this kind of infrastructure.
>> All right, we're gonna leave that
conversation there when it comes to
Bitcoin. Uh but here back in our of
course TV studio here uh we're going to
talk more about trade. Our next guest
was one of the most consequential
architects of recent US economic
security policy. We're talking to Gina
Rayundo, former US Secretary of Commerce
joining us here. Gina, thank you so much
for gracing us with your presence. It's
been very interesting. I think your
comments this whole week have been quite
influential I think to to this part of
the world about this whole America first
policy is not America alone.
>> Yeah.
>> You you ended your last sort of point
talking about the uncertainty of tariffs
is almost more threatening than the the
whole tariffs themselves. We're in a
one-year truce now between the US and
China. Do you think we've gotten much
more clarity?
>> Uh I hope so. First of all, good morning
and thank you for having me. I do
believe the uncertainty is an even
bigger problem than the tariff level.
That being said, you know, a
triple-digit tariff is a problem, but
you can't expect countries to continue
to trust the United States or want to
make big investments in the United
States or trade with the United States
if they they think the tariff rate will
change, you know, two or three times a
year. Your company can't plan for that.
So, I hope we're in a truce to answer
your question. I hope that it'll be sort
of status quo at least with China. But
the quicker we can get to some
certainty, the better we'll be. Now,
mind you, you know, I think the
president has a fair point, which is to
say other countries have taken advantage
of our openness and American workers
have been hurt. So addressing that issue
is an important thing to do but you need
a strategy with clarity and some
certainty
>> and the message has to be clear. I
wanted to ask you too what do you think
the messages
to some of not just China for example
countries like Japan Korea for example
where if you think about it in the end
they ended up with more uncertainty
around their tariff conversation
relationship with the United States.
What message do you think uh needs to be
polished if it needs to be improved a
little bit or what message do you think
the US is sending to its trading
partners?
>> I think it's the wrong message because
Japan and Korea, the two examples you
gave are some of our closest allies and
we want, you know, I'm of the view that
the world is a safer place when America
leads. A strong America that is a leader
is good for the world. it provides and
and if America withdraws that vacuum is
filled in a way that is less secure and
in order to lead we need partners in
order to compete with China we need
partners Korea, Japan, Europe
long-standing partners. Now if you think
that they're engaging in unfair trade
practices, fine address it but treat
your allies like allies.
>> These are the countries and companies we
want to have, you know, to invest in the
United States, for example. And so I I
just I think it's a mistake
to to treat allies and adversaries in
the same way because we cannot compete
with China without France
and there's been so much talk about
where we are in terms of these chip
curbs um which we've seen some delays
from from the Trump administration.
Do you see that there's going to be a
risk if the Trump administration
eventually does allow for the shipments
and sales of these black well chips to
China?
Look, the devil is in the details. I
think the absolute most cutting edge
chips which we have, which China doesn't
have, is a completely different
discussion than um disallowing sales to
China of of chips that they already
have, right? That just hurts American
companies. I mean, I do agree that
having the world run on US AI rails is a
good thing, right? We I think it is a
good thing to have diffusion of US chips
so that countries all over the world use
US models, US data centers, US
hyperscalers, US chips. Um so I think
that's fine. The thing that I do quibble
with is
national security shouldn't be for sale.
So if you say as this administration has
said, you know, this chip can't be sold
to China and then you say it can be sold
to China if we get a 15% of the revenue.
>> That doesn't make sense to me, right?
National
security is you can't put a price on it.
It's not for sale. So
>> should these chips be sold? You know,
maybe. Like I said, that's a detailed
analysis. I think most chips should be
sold because China has that capability
already and why deny US companies
revenue. But the thing I strongly
disagree with is putting a price tag on
the protection of the American people.
>> The
we've seen this a very complex and I
cognizant we don't have enough time for
this but the we've seen the US
government get involved in the private
sector. You know the Intel deal I heard
you talk a little bit about that of
course. just help our viewers understand
what you're in favor of. What type of
should we call it intervention or
incentivizing? How how should we frame
that? And why do you think US government
support is needed at this point in time?
>> So, it's not new. The US has subsidized
the agriculture industry, the airline
industry, the train industry for a long
time. It's appropriate for government to
say these products matter to our
national security and so we're going to
provide incentives. Semiconductors is a
great example. Everything runs on
semiconductors and we don't make any
leading edge ships in America or we
didn't until recently. And it's a lot
more expensive to make them in the US
than in Taiwan. So offering a subsidy
that's appropriate in a targeted way I
think makes sense for a government to
do. I get nervous when it's oneoff when
it's over meddling in the market. Um
because then it distorts markets and
what's great about America is our open
market system.
>> You mentioned also this week that you
were surprised that the Trump
administration was surprised that China
was going to use that card when it comes
to rare earth.
>> Yeah.
Are there things the Trump administ
overlooking in terms of where China can
still weaponize in in this whole trade
fight? Are there things that we're not
talking about right now that that are
>> concerning? Yeah, I don't know. You
know, I have to believe they're they're
wellinformed and properly briefed, etc.
I was surprised uh that they seem
surprised because it's so obvious. You
know there are certain areas
biotechnology, active pharmaceutical
ingredients, uh critical minerals, rare
earths,
solar panels where we just know
the concentration is too heavy in China,
which by the way is a reason to in
provide government incentives. We're a
less safe country if we're overly
reliant. So uh I no I don't think so. I
think we are aware of what those
vulnerabilities are. I just think you
need to have a strategy. Back to the
point about certainty. If we could
telegraph to the world, this is what
we're trying to achieve. This is our
strategy. Let's work with our allies. We
don't want American workers to get hurt
as they have been. But we we it can't be
this constant, you know, whack-a-ole
transactional oneoff. It with the United
States of America, we we need to have a
strategy and a plan
>> and a consistent one. I think one of the
things you mentioned too, you've spent
hours in the Oval Office trying to
convince President Biden to bring the
tariffs down and he said he wasn't going
to be the president I think that would
lose manufacturing jobs. How can the
world trust businesses and investors
trust that even if we do get a
consistent and clear message that
message doesn't change
>> and is agnostic of election cycles? Yes,
you know, uh, America is a trusted
partner. Uh, right now the politics and
what you're hearing come out of the
White House is, uh, divisive and
uncertain. But as I have said all week,
you know, our commercial relationship,
the American people, American
businesses, American politicians don't
want to be isolationist. We and these
relationships will continue. We just
have to get through an unsettled period
of politics.
>> Do you think there could be a balance
though between some of the short-term
goals like soybeans for example with
some of the longer term goals, right?
Reducing the US trade deficit, slowing
China's tech progress. What's the right
balance, do you think, Junah?
>> You have to do both. You have to do both
at the same time. You know, president
was able to secure the soybean deal.
That's a good thing for American
farmers. But you know you got to where
the we're where the US can chew gum and
walk at the same time. I mean you have
to look at the long-term prospects which
requires investment investment in chips
investment in research and development
investment in talent and also uh tariffs
or individual trade deals
>> um
>> because we have to deal with this in the
moment. I mean we're in an inflationary
environment in the US. It's challenging
for the average consumer. We have
Thanksgiving next week. It's going to be
an expensive grocery bill for most
Americans. So, we have to acknowledge
that and do something about that today
while also planning for the long run.
>> Speaking of, let's call it prices and
inflation. Uh, do tariffs stay
>> beyond
foreseeable future?
>> I did not bring my crystal ball to this
interview. Tariffs are hard to take off
once they're on. You know, when you put
a tariff on, you're protecting an
industry. You're protecting an American
worker. it's hard to take off. So, I
would like to think we're going the
pendulum is going to come back. I do
think politics is a pendulum.
>> It's one of the features of democracy.
You know, it's a feature, not a bug. And
I I think we we'll be in a tariff world
for some time. They're hard to take off,
but I I hope we'll come back to a place
of more predictability.
>> Okay. I was going to take I get your
take on these Gulf sort of AI deals that
were struck this week with President
Trump uh during NBS's visit. How do you
think that squares with the diffusion
rule during the Biden era?
>> Yeah.
>> And would you approve the sort of, you
know, they're talking about 35,000 AI
chips to to some of these companies?
Would you approve that number?
>> So, I'm no long, you know, I'm not in
the details specifically, but here's
what I would say. Um, once again, we
need allies, right?
tech who who diffuses tech wins. America
has the best chips, the best models, the
best AI. We want the world to use that.
So, as long as the UAE, Saudis, whoever
agree to our security protocols, i.e.,
they're not going to let the chips get
to China, they're not going to let our
models get to China, then I think it's a
good thing, right? We want allies. By
the way, this is how you make friends
around the world. These countries want
AI for their own prosperity, right? They
everything will will need AI in the
future. So I don't think we want to hold
companies back, countries back,
>> but they have to follow the rules. They
have to have physical security, cyber
security, no back doors to China.
>> Gina, thank you so much for taking the
time.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Let's do this again next time.
Meanwhile, let's run it back. Gina
Raymond there of course former US
Secretary of Commerce just now here of
course in sets at the Bloomberg New
Economy Forum taking place in Singapore.
There's plenty more ahead here on
Bloomberg television.
[music]